Here's a user class.
We have a constructor,
and we've got first name,
last name,
makes a full name down there, cool.
Job well done.
We have a user and it works.
We tried a different way.
We have a user data type.
And we have full name.
This time we're using joins, same thing.
But down there,
works exactly the same as it did before.
There's a difference here,
we can actually rename
this full name here where we join the
first and last to join with space, right?
Now, let's try to join the firstName and
the lastName with a space.
And all of the sudden,
emerges these properties.
If we start to generalize,
if we start to try to work with
these properties, we end up noticing that
joinWithSpace is associative down there.
It doesn't matter how I group them.
Therefore, I can join as many as I want,
and I end up with these
roles of composition, which is nice I
didn't have that with for full name.
In fact in joinWitSpaces,
reusable utility now that's not buried and
stuck and tied to an object to
be rewritten again and again.
Or you can take it a step further and
say joinWithSpaces,
we're going to take any joinable.
So we're going to program
to the interface joinable.
And then we'll pass in an array,
which is joinable.
But it could be other things,
could be a tree,
could be objects with keys and values.
So we'll pass in a joinable and
there we get joinWithSpaces again.
And this is the same
thing as encapsulation.
So the only thing joinWithSpaces
can do is called join.
It knows nothing else.
It gets a joinable it can't
decide to look at the object.
And if you think back to that user class
where we had, let me go back up here,
we have the entire user at our
disposal and all the other methods.
We have this in here.
So we can do a lot of stuff.
But over here, there's literally one
thing we can do, we can call join.
And that's it.
So it's really just the argument
that makes this special.
To take it a step further, if we have
the identity function, it takes some a and
returns it back.
There's nothing it can do with that value.
It knows nothing about it.
It can't call any methods.
It can't do anything to it.
And so this is how we get encapsulation
with functional programming.
Does anybody have any
questions on that one?
Cuz it's a weird concept.
The encapsulation is
the dual of abstraction and
this is kind of the abstraction side of it
is that you don't know anything about it.
So I can't actually touch it.
So therefore I get information on it.
>> What's the value of that function?
>> If we jump into Run dev.
So, let's see if I have
= require('types').
Cool, let's first say Either.of(2).fold.
Let's go ahead and make identity.
And it takes an a, returns an a.
I can actually fold out
the value by saying I have
a function that takes that value and
spits it back out at you.
Instead of having to write a handler
that takes the number two and
then returns the number two,
that's the same as this, right?
I can just call identity.
That will come in handy more and
more throughout your functional
programming career, but
it's it's a little weird to see off the
bat but eventually it it's a good utility.
Yeah, what's up?
>> Would it be fair to say that a lot of
things in functional programming rely
on the identity mode, but
we're as programmers not gonna be putting
it to use as frequently as it's
used by the structures that we use?
>> That's fair to say.
We'll actually see that in mono
transformers supplying the identity
functor to a transformer which
recovers the original type.
It's a great utility to have and
it's founded in theory.
We have composition which takes f and
g, and we have an identity.
And actually, it turns out that those
are the two things that you need to define
a category, and category theory and
they're pervasive.
And we'll see some of that in a minute
here when we talk about monoids.
Identity on functions just
takes a value transfer.
Let's go to, okay, so
we want highly generalized functions.
That's not a hard rule.
It's just a good guiding principle.
To say I'm just going to keep abstracting
away until I'm programming to the most
minimal interface.
Then I get the maximum reuse,
and I get information hiding.
And if I change my program here there,
it's not gonna ripple.
So we keep working on these higher
highly generalized functions
until we hit a nice balance.